# ATEasy-Essay
ATEasy

History:
  ATEasy is a programming language which is similar to C++ and C# and is mostly used for creating testing programs for different aerospace equipment. ATEasy started to be created by Ronnie Yazma and the company was fully formed in 1998. The company name is called Marvin Test Solutions (MTS) which is part of The Marvin Group and the CEO is Major General Stephen T. Sargeant, USAF (Ret.). MTS sells to military, aerospace and manufacturing organizations. You can clearly see that management is dedicated to their customer service as their mission statement is “We are dedicated to advancing our customers’ success by designing and delivering innovative test solutions that combine quality, performance, and ease of use” and their vision is “To be the preferred provider of test system solutions in the primary market segments we serve by 2024” and their core values are “Dedication, Innovation, Recognition,  and Courtesy.”

Why choose ATeasy?
  There is one primary reason as to why you would choose ATEasy over other languages and that is if you needed to create testing programs for an aerospace machine (in other words, you won’t use this language unless you are a test engineer. If you are a test engineer then ATEasy provides many benefits including Rapid Application Development (RAD), fast and easy programming, multi-threading support, instrument independence and  a test/source level debugger. With instrument independence, test engineers can create a driver and relate commands of that driver for instruments types which greatly reduce the amount of work the test engineer needs to do. In addition to that, ATEasy’s debugger has development tools like Step-in, Step-out, Step-Over, Breakpoints, DOIT!, and etc. which all help test engineers debug a lot quicker.
  Also as a test engineer, when you test an equipment you need to document the entire test and sign it off saying that you tested everything and it works perfectly. Usually, you need to do that on an excel or print it all out by screenshotting the screen. However, ATEasy has user-defined commands like Test Requirement Document (TRD), which basically automatically makes a printable page that has the entire test and a place for your signature.
Since ATEasy is an open system architecture this allows ATEasy to be able to support a multitude of hardware and software standards. Some of theses are: “GPIB, Serial communication, VXI, USB, PCI/ISA, LXI (TCP/IP), DLL, COM/ActiveX controls, .NET assemblies, LabView VI/LLB files, VXIPlug&Play Function Panel drivers, IVI drivers, the importing of C header files, and Microsoft SourceSafe”. Through the help of these standards, any user can extend and enhance their ATEasy experience on a personal level. 
  Lastly, since ATEasy is a specialized language for testing aerospace equipment like missiles, security is a huge concern especially on our customer’s side (usually the military). Your ATeasy Executable and DLL files can be encrypted to the customer’s needs.  In addition to encryption, “ATEasy run-time provides protection against calls stack parameters mismatch and buffer overrun protection after external DLL call. ATEasy source files when saved to binary format can be also encrypted to protect against changes and verify file integrity. Program, System and Drivers files can be password or license protected to limit access to using, viewing or changing the file. Automatic versions records to the source files and the user making the changes allowing you to track changes beyond using file date.” With all these features, with still create encrypted executables of our projects so customers do not need any internet in their computer (which makes hacking virtually impossible). 

Why is there still a need for such a niche programming language on the market?
  Although ATEasy might not be used by the average Joe, to test engineers, this language saves them a lot of time, pain, effort, and money. Therefore, these niche companies that use this language, they are willing to pay a lot of money to get licenses and classes on how to use ATEasy. In the same way that Apple wasn’t satisfied with Objective-C and they created Swift; Test engineers were not C and C++ so ATEasy was created. Also, the mother of all operating systems is Linux and Windows was created in order to the average person who had no computer science background would have an easier time using a computer.

Feature I found most interesting:
  The most interesting feature that ATEasy has is Test Executive. From personal experience, it is truly one of a kind and it is the primary reason a lot of our customers stay with us; a lot of my work as a customer tech support employee is done in Test Executive.

Bibliography:
https://www.marvintest.com/Home.aspx -Homepage of website
https://www.marvintest.com/Product.aspx?model=ATEasy&Tab=Whats+New? - ATEasy Framework
https://www.marvintest.com/Product.aspx?Model=ATEasy -Specifications of ATEasy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2o-ZXL8dqWA -Video tutorials for ATEasy
